The L1z1x Mindnet
[0.0.0]
This elusive energy-rich planet was the desperate destination of the secret Lazax Diaspora. Now, it is a technological nightmare.
5,0

The Barony of Letnev
Arc Prime
Below the thin surface atmosphere lie the continent-size caverns of the Letnev. Rich in metals and energy, its vast fungus fields struggle to feed its population.
4,0
Wren Terra
Arid, windy, and populated primarily by predatory Daartar hounds. The Barony utilizes large swaths of its northern steppes for low-yield agriculture.
2,1

The Xxcha Kingdom
Archon Ren
Populated by small arboreal villages, this planet's only true urban center is the royal city of Kklaj. The Xxcha home world and home to the renowned library of Xuun.
2,3
Archon Tau
Ravaged by Sol and Letnev bombardments during the Twilight Wars. The Xxcha commit substantial resources to rebuilding its ecology and cleansing its toxic continents.
1,1

The Emirates of Hacan
Arretze
Also called the "Moving Sand." The desert home of the Hacan Mowshir trade families and the great orbital trading ports of Haal, Shimax, and Dry Wind.
2,0
Hercant
Also called the "Fire Sand." Seat of the Quieron, the Hacan council, and the Sword Fleet. Harbors the greatest of the famous Hacan moving cities.
1,1
Kamdorn
Also called the "Dream Sand." The least populated of the Hacan planets, but the center of Hacan mythology and religion. The only known source of starflowers.
0,1

The Ghosts of Creuss
Creuss
Trapped between matter and void lies the realm of Creuss. Made of trapped light and radioactive gas, this realm hosts the most peculiar forms of life.
4,2

The Yin Brotherhood
Darien
Darien is the heart of the Brotherhood's realm. Here, within the great Monastery of Lucas, rests the Yin, the holy egg from which all the Brotherhood were made.
2,4

The Naalu Collective
Druaa
Despite its oversized poles, one of the most beautiful planets. Its flowered steppes, violet mountains, and glowing forests are famous across the galaxy.
3,1
Maaluuk
Mostly pungent marshland and mudplains. Original world of the Naalu race, which now enslaves the winged Miashan to work its great iron-extraction plants.
0,2

Universities of Jol Nar
Jol
Covered by cold oceans and a few inhospitable islands. The seat of the Head Master, the Hylar ruler, who dwells in the deep underwater city of Wun-Escha.
1,2
Nar
Covered by mild oceans and a small archipelago called The Reef by off-worlders. The Circle of Regents makes its home in the underwater city-school of Nuun-Dascha.
2,3

Federation of Sol
Jord
Distinctly seasonal, with the greatest variety of climates and ecologies in the galaxy. The Federation of Sol rules the Jord humans from the great city of New Moscow.
4,2

The Clan of Saar
Lisis II
The crystal caverns of Lisis II are the source of most of the Jorun colonists' water and foodstuffs. Notable for the great crescent-shaped valley of Gavar.
1,0
Ragh
The capital colony of the Saar, and the epicenter of the Saar religion. Also called "Ragh's Call" by the Saar.
2,1

The Mentak Coalition
Moll Primus
In places lush and rich, in others a barren wasteland. This old Lazax penal colony has prospered under the rule of the governing Mentak Coalition.
4,1

The Nekro Virus
Mordai II
Mined to its bones by the virulent Nekro, Mordai II is reinforced by graviton energy-beams that barely keep the world from collapsing in on itself.
4,0

The Embers of Muaat
Muaat
The fiery surface of Muaat is uninhabitable to most races. It is home to the Gashlai, and only here can they live outside of their cumbersome ember suits.
4,1

The Arborec
Nestphar
The fungal world of Nestphar is home to the symbiotic Arborec. Nestphar's orbit is filled with Flaah spores that extend its Symphony.
3,2
Green Technology Specialty

Sardakk N'orr
Quinarra
Enormous and oceanless. Not only the largest planet supporting sentient life, but also the one with the least moisture. Home to the Sardakk N'orr hive-cities.
3,1
Tren'lak
Icy and desolate. Other than the ferocious snow dracs and the rare icemoon flowers, life is restricted to the N'orr boomtowns and ice mines.
1,0

The Yssaril Tribes
Retillion
A mix of tundra, swamps, rivers, and dense forests. Home to the mysterious chameleonic Yssaril, whose capital Wueca has eluded all attempts at cartography.
2,3
Shalloq
Covered with tundra, wetlands, and rainforest, much like its sister-planet Retillion. Home to Mojeb, the only major Yssaril city catalogued by off-worlders.
1,2

The Winnu
Winnu
The shining cities of the Winnu are the last places where authentic Lazax art and culture are still revered.
3,4
Yellow Technology Specialty